src/prompts/setup.md, before:

# Connection Setup & Version Detection

**Reference guide for validating Neo4j connections and detecting version information.**

---

## Why This Matters

### Version-Specific Cypher Syntax

Neo4j versions use different Cypher syntax. Generating code without knowing the version = broken code.

**Neo4j 5.x (Cypher 23+)**:
```cypher
// Modern syntax
MERGE (n:Customer {id: $id})
SET n += {firstName: $firstName, lastName: $lastName}
```

**Neo4j 4.x (Cypher 5)**:
```cypher
// Legacy syntax
MERGE (n:Customer {id: $id})
ON CREATE SET n.firstName = $firstName, n.lastName = $lastName
ON MATCH SET n.firstName = $firstName, n.lastName = $lastName
```

**Different syntax means**:
- `SET +=` (5.x) vs `ON CREATE/MATCH SET` (4.x)
- `elementId()` (5.x) vs `id()` (4.x)
- Vector indexes (5.x only)
- Different type systems

### Pre-Generation vs Runtime

**Two layers of version handling**:

1. **Pre-Generation** (what you need):
   - Know version BEFORE generating `data_mapper.py`
   - Choose correct Cypher syntax in generated code
   - Avoid using features that don't exist in user's version

2. **Runtime** (handled by pre-built code):
   - `get_writer()` auto-selects `Neo4jWriterV4` or `Neo4jWriterV5`
   - User doesn't need to think about this
   - Pre-built infrastructure handles it

---

## How to Check Connection & Version

### CLI Command
```bash
python3 cli.py neo4j-info
```

### What It Returns
```

╔═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║                 Neo4j Connection Information                  ║
╚═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

✓ Connected

Neo4j Version       : 2025.06.2
Cypher Versions     : 5, 25
Edition             : Enterprise
URI                 : neo4j://localhost:7687
Database            : neo4j

Ready to generate ingestion code!
```

### What to Store
After running the command, keep this information for code generation:
- `version`: Full version string (e.g., "5.15.0")
- `cypher_version`: Cypher version (e.g., "23")
- Major version: Extract from version (e.g., "5")

---

## The .env File

### Required Before Any Connection

Users must create `.env` in the root directory:

### How to Check

```bash
ls .env
```

- **Exists**: Proceed to test connection
- **Missing**: Ask user to create it (provide template above)

---

## When to Check Connection

### ✅ Check Early
- Before generating any code
- User may not have .env configured yet
- Better to catch early than fail during generation

### ❌ Don't Blindly Assume
- Don't assume .env exists
- Don't assume connection works
- Don't assume version is 5.x

### Decision Flow

```
User requests help
    ↓
Check: .env exists?
    ↓
  YES → Run: python3 cli.py neo4j-info
    ↓
  SUCCESS → Store version info, proceed
    ↓
  FAILURE → Show error, ask user to fix
    ↓
  NO .env → Ask user to create it
```

---

## What to Communicate to User

### When Connected Successfully
```
✅ Connected to Neo4j 5.15.0 (Cypher 23)
```

Keep it brief. User doesn't need technical details unless they ask.

### When .env Missing
```
❌ Missing .env file

Please create .env in the root directory with your Neo4j credentials.
```

Provide the template, make it easy.

### When Connection Fails
```
❌ Cannot connect to Neo4j

Error: Connection refused

Please check:
- Is Neo4j running?
- Is NEO4J_URI correct in .env? (should be bolt://localhost:7687)
- Is NEO4J_PASSWORD correct?
```

Be helpful. Suggest common fixes.

---

## Example Usage in Conversation

### User Request
> "Help me load data into Neo4j"

### Your Actions
1. Check .env: `ls .env`
2. If exists: `python3 cli.py neo4j-info`
3. Store version: "5.15.0", Cypher "23"

### Your Response
```
✅ Connected to Neo4j 5.15.0

Ready to help load your data. What use case are you implementing?
```

---

## Key Takeaways

- **Always check connection before generating code**
- **Version determines Cypher syntax** (5.x vs 4.x are different)
- **CLI provides version info**: `python3 cli.py neo4j-info`
- **.env is required**: Check for it first
- **Pre-built infrastructure handles runtime**: You just need version for code generation
- **Communicate clearly**: Tell user what's wrong and how to fix it

---

See also:
- `../PROMPT.md` - Overall guidance
- `discover_usecase.md` - Next step: selecting use case
- `generate_mapper.md` - How to use version info when generating code

Commit message:

Enhance documentation across multiple prompts to emphasize the critical importance of reading supporting prompts before code generation. Introduce a new validate_data_quality.md file detailing mandatory data validation steps, including checks for nulls, types, and invalid values. Update existing prompts (PROMPT.md, discover_usecase.md, generate_mapper.md, setup.md) to include warnings about reading the main guidance document first, ensuring users follow best practices for data handling and code generation. This improves user understanding and adherence to professional standards in data processing.

src/prompts/setup.md, after:

# Connection Setup & Version Detection

> **🛑 STOP**: Have you read [PROMPT.md](../../PROMPT.md)?
>
> If NO → Read it NOW before proceeding. It contains critical context about:
> - Your mission and core principles
> - When to read this file vs others
> - Essential tools and workflows
>
> This supporting prompt assumes you've already read PROMPT.md.

---

**Reference guide for validating Neo4j connections and detecting version information.**

---

## Why This Matters

### Version-Specific Cypher Syntax

Neo4j versions use different Cypher syntax. Generating code without knowing the version = broken code.

**Neo4j 5.x (Cypher 23+)**:
```cypher
// Modern syntax
MERGE (n:Customer {id: $id})
SET n += {firstName: $firstName, lastName: $lastName}
```

**Neo4j 4.x (Cypher 5)**:
```cypher
// Legacy syntax
MERGE (n:Customer {id: $id})
ON CREATE SET n.firstName = $firstName, n.lastName = $lastName
ON MATCH SET n.firstName = $firstName, n.lastName = $lastName
```

**Different syntax means**:
- `SET +=` (5.x) vs `ON CREATE/MATCH SET` (4.x)
- `elementId()` (5.x) vs `id()` (4.x)
- Vector indexes (5.x only)
- Different type systems

### Pre-Generation vs Runtime

**Two layers of version handling**:

1. **Pre-Generation** (what you need):
   - Know version BEFORE generating `data_mapper.py`
   - Choose correct Cypher syntax in generated code
   - Avoid using features that don't exist in user's version

2. **Runtime** (handled by pre-built code):
   - `get_writer()` auto-selects `Neo4jWriterV4` or `Neo4jWriterV5`
   - User doesn't need to think about this
   - Pre-built infrastructure handles it

---

## How to Check Connection & Version

### CLI Command
```bash
python3 cli.py neo4j-info
```

### What It Returns
```

╔═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
║                 Neo4j Connection Information                  ║
╚═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝

✓ Connected

Neo4j Version       : 2025.06.2
Cypher Versions     : 5, 25
Edition             : Enterprise
URI                 : neo4j://localhost:7687
Database            : neo4j

Ready to generate ingestion code!
```

### What to Store
After running the command, keep this information for code generation:
- `version`: Full version string (e.g., "5.15.0")
- `cypher_version`: Cypher version (e.g., "23")
- Major version: Extract from version (e.g., "5")

---

## The .env File

### Required Before Any Connection

Users must create `.env` in the root directory:

### How to Check

```bash
ls .env
```

- **Exists**: Proceed to test connection
- **Missing**: Ask user to create it (provide template above)

---

## When to Check Connection

### ✅ Check Early
- Before generating any code
- User may not have .env configured yet
- Better to catch early than fail during generation

### ❌ Don't Blindly Assume
- Don't assume .env exists
- Don't assume connection works
- Don't assume version is 5.x

### Decision Flow

```
User requests help
    ↓
Check: .env exists?
    ↓
  YES → Run: python3 cli.py neo4j-info
    ↓
  SUCCESS → Store version info, proceed
    ↓
  FAILURE → Show error, ask user to fix
    ↓
  NO .env → Ask user to create it
```

---

## What to Communicate to User

### When Connected Successfully
```
✅ Connected to Neo4j 5.15.0 (Cypher 23)
```

Keep it brief. User doesn't need technical details unless they ask.

### When .env Missing
```
❌ Missing .env file

Please create .env in the root directory with your Neo4j credentials.
```

Provide the template, make it easy.

### When Connection Fails
```
❌ Cannot connect to Neo4j

Error: Connection refused

Please check:
- Is Neo4j running?
- Is NEO4J_URI correct in .env? (should be bolt://localhost:7687)
- Is NEO4J_PASSWORD correct?
```

Be helpful. Suggest common fixes.

---

## Example Usage in Conversation

### User Request
> "Help me load data into Neo4j"

### Your Actions
1. Check .env: `ls .env`
2. If exists: `python3 cli.py neo4j-info`
3. Store version: "5.15.0", Cypher "23"

### Your Response
```
✅ Connected to Neo4j 5.15.0

Ready to help load your data. What use case are you implementing?
```

---

## Key Takeaways

- **Always check connection before generating code**
- **Version determines Cypher syntax** (5.x vs 4.x are different)
- **CLI provides version info**: `python3 cli.py neo4j-info`
- **.env is required**: Check for it first
- **Pre-built infrastructure handles runtime**: You just need version for code generation
- **Communicate clearly**: Tell user what's wrong and how to fix it

---

See also:
- `../PROMPT.md` - Overall guidance
- `discover_usecase.md` - Next step: selecting use case
- `generate_mapper.md` - How to use version info when generating code
